1. HomeBrew

What is it: It is a package manager which lets people to install free and open source s/w using terminal. We can use it installing developer tool node.js , ruby etc.

Homebrew installation-
1.install Xcode CLI - it is an IDE comprise of s/w dev tools for macOs
command- Xcode-select --install

installing and setup brew-
Curl - uses to download the homebrew installation
Flags-
1. -f/--fail: tells terminal to to give no html doc o/p on server error.
2.-s/—silent: mutes curl so that it will not show progress meter
3.-S/—show-error: ensure curl to show error msg if it fails
4.-L/—location: handle redirects
5.-o : saves the content into file you specify.

Commands:
1.less —> it is for reviewing the installing setup
2.doctor —> is for updation of the package with current version
3.which —>used for searching the directory of the package

2. Vs Code 

What is it: It is a smart code editor with light weight functionality with great support in development techs.
Vs Code installation 
plugins to be install:
    1. prettier - for better code formatting.
    2. gitlens - for git history
    3. Js debugger - for debugging
    4. Eslint - for code style enforcement

3. Docker 

What is it: It is a software paltform to built and deploy applications quickly. 
            Basically, it creates packages of s/w into standardization units called containers-> it had everything to run and develop the application like libraries, toole,etc.
            It is an OS for containers.

Working of Docker - It is having an Docker Enginge where there are communication 
                    between Client and server through rest APIs where client runs a command translated using Rest API and sent to docker.

4. Shell

What it is: The shell is a command-line interface that allows you to interact with your operating system.
Why it's important: Many development tasks like running scripts, version control, and managing packages happen in the terminal.
How to set it up:
        Mac users: By default, the shell is bash. We will install zsh for a more modern experience.

5. Node Version Manager (NVM)

What it is: A version manager for Node.js that allows you to easily install and switch between different versions of Node.js.
Why it's important: Projects often require different Node.js versions, and NVM simplifies managing these versions.
Installation and setup:
    bash
    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.1/install.sh | bash

    Usage:
        Install Node: nvm install <version>
        Switch between versions: nvm use <version>.







